[VEN-1670]: Docs for Automatic Income Allocation (#49)
VenusProtocol/venus-protocol-documentation: technical-reference/reference-technical-articles/automatic-income-allocation.md

# Automatic income allocation

The purpose of this document is to explain the technical details for distributing incomes generated by the Venus Protocol. The distributed incomes are generated from the spread of lending rates (borrow minus supply rates) and liquidations (part of the liquidation incentives). The distribution process for both the Core Pool and Isolated Pools as well as how the different amounts are allocated to different destinations based on specific rules and the approach for near-streaming income distribution are covered.```

## Income Distribution Schema
We want to distribute the protocol incomes this way *[Tokenomics](https://snapshot.org/#/venus-xvs.eth/proposal/0xc9d270ccecb7b91c75b95b8d9af24fc7c20cd38c0c0c44888ed4e7724f4e7ce9)*

The Venus Protocol generates income from two main sources:

- (A) Spread between the borrowing rate and the supply rate
- (B) Part of the liquidation incentives

> The distribution of protocol incomes is as follows:
> 
> **Schema 1:**
> 
> - When: Income generated by (A) from markets supported by the Prime program.
> - Distribution:
>     - 40%: Risk fund
>     - 40%: Treasury
>     - 10%: XVS Vault rewards
>     - 10%: Venus Prime
> 
> **Schema 2:**
> 
> - When: Conditions for Schema 1 are not satisfied.
> - Distribution:
>     - 50%: Risk fund
>     - 40%: Treasury
>     - 10%: XVS Vault rewards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spread income from tokens not included in Venus Prime and liquidation incentive income are distributed to  the Risk fund, Treasury, XVS Vault rewards. Venus Prime token spread income is also distributed to the Prime program. Specific distribution percentages and details are included in the [Tokenomics](https://docs-v4.venus.io/governance/tokenomics).
```

Reviewer 2: I will only add the link to Tokenomics, to avoid confusions and out of sync info

# Automatic income allocation

> The purpose of this document is to define the technical solution for distributing the incomes generated by the Venus protocol. The distribution takes into account the incomes generated by the spread (borrow minus supply rates) and liquidations (part of the liquidation incentives). The document covers the distribution process for both Core pools and Isolated pools, and explains how the incomes are allocated to different destinations based on specific rules and percentages. Additionally, it outlines the approach for near-streaming income distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this document is to explain the technical details for distributing income generated by the Venus Protocol. The distributed income is generated from the spread of lending rates (borrow minus supply rates) and liquidations (part of the liquidation incentives). The distribution process for both the Core Pool and Isolated Pools as well as how the different amounts are allocated to different destinations based on specific rules and the approach for near-streaming income distribution are covered.```

## Income Distribution Schema

> We want to distribute the protocol incomes this way *[Tokenomics](https://snapshot.org/#/venus-xvs.eth/proposal/0xc9d270ccecb7b91c75b95b8d9af24fc7c20cd38c0c0c44888ed4e7724f4e7ce9)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can add a link to the tokenomics page: https://docs-v4.venus.io/governance/tokenomics

And remove the percentage and details from here, to avoid duplicated info (it can be more difficult to maintain in the future)

The Venus Protocol generates income from two main sources:

- (A) Spread between the borrowing rate and the supply rate
- (B) Part of the liquidation incentives

The distribution of protocol incomes is as follows:

**Schema 1:**

> - When: Income generated by (A) from markets supported by the Prime program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Income generated by (A) from markets supported by the Prime program.
```

> **Schema 1:**
> 
> - When: Income generated by (A) from markets supported by the Prime program.
> - Distribution:
>     - 40%: Risk fund
>     - 40%: Treasury
>     - 10%: XVS Vault rewards
>     - 10%: Venus Prime
> 
> **Schema 2:**
> 
> - When: Conditions for Schema 1 are not satisfied.
> - Distribution:
>     - 50%: Risk fund
>     - 40%: Treasury
>     - 10%: XVS Vault rewards
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Schema 1**: Income generated by (A) from markets supported by the Prime program.

Distribution:
  - 40%: Risk fund
  - 40%: Treasury
  - 10%: XVS Vault rewards
  - 10%: Venus Prime

**Schema 2:** Conditions for Schema 1 are not satisfied.

Distribution:
  - 50%: Risk fund
  - 40%: Treasury
  - 10%: XVS Vault rewards
```

The initial distribution excludes VAI funds, which are kept in the VTreasury.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *[Tokenomics 3.1 proposal](https://snapshot.org/#/venus-xvs.eth/proposal/0xc9d270ccecb7b91c75b95b8d9af24fc7c20cd38c0c0c44888ed4e7724f4e7ce9)* goes into more detail about the distribution schema and desired outcomes.
```

Reviewer 2: I added an internal link to our Tokenomics page

## Streaming Income Distribution

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/autoamtic-income-allocation.png" alt=""></figure>

> The Venus protocol aims to distribute accumulated reserves in the markets automatically and in near-real-time, leveraging transactions executed by users. This approach eliminates the need for external tools to manage the distribution process. . The `ProtocolShareReserve` contract serves as the designated destination for liquidation incomes, allowing for tracking and distribution within the Venus Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Venus protocol aims to distribute accumulated reserves in the markets automatically and in near-real-time, leveraging transactions executed by users. This approach eliminates the need for external tools to manage the distribution process. The `ProtocolShareReserve` contract serves as the designated destination for liquidation incomes, allowing for tracking and distribution within the Venus Protocol.
```

### Core Pool - Spread Income

> In Core pools, accumulated reserves in the markets will be distributed after reaching a specified threshold. The threshold is based on the number of blocks since the last transfer of reserves. This strategy helps socialize part of the cost associated with distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Core Pool, accumulated reserves in the markets will be distributed after reaching a specified threshold. The threshold is based on the number of blocks since the last transfer of reserves. This strategy helps socialize part of the cost associated with distribution.
```

### Core Pook - Liquidation Income

> In Core pools, incentivized tokens is transferred to the Liquidator contract in the form of vTokens. During a liquidation transaction, the Liquidator contract will try to redeem the underlying tokens from the liquidated vTokens. If the redemption process is successful, the resulting underlying tokens will be sent to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract. However, if the redemption fails, the underlying tokens will be added to a list of pending redemptions. Subsequently, the Liquidator contract will make further attempts to redeem the pending redemptions in subsequent liquidation transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Core Pool, liquidation income is transferred to the Liquidator contract in the form of vTokens. During a liquidation transaction, the Liquidator contract will try to redeem the underlying tokens from the liquidated vTokens. If the redemption process is successful, the  underlying tokens will be sent to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract. However, if the redemption fails the underlying tokens will be added to a list of pending redemptions and the Liquidator contract will try to redeem the pending redemptions again in subsequent liquidation transactions.
```

### Isolated Pool - Spread Income

> Similar to the work done to Core Pool Spread Income.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distribution of income generated by the interest rate spread in Isolated Pools is socialized and distributed periodically just like in the Core Pool
```

### Isolated Pool - Liquidation Income

> In Isolated pools, liquidations are managed by the VToken contracts. During a liquidation transaction, the seized amount for the protocol is transferred to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Isolated Pools liquidations are managed by the VToken contracts. During a liquidation transaction, the seized amount for the protocol is transferred to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract.
```

> This ensures that 100% of the liquidation income is directly sent to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract, without the need for additional updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Distribution of Collected Incomes

The distribution of collected incomes is facilitated by the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract. It supports WBNB transfers but not BNB transfers. Therefore, BNB needs to be wrapped into WBNB before transferring to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract.

### `updateAssetsState` Function

> The `updateAssetsState` function enables the transfer of funds to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract. After transferring funds from the origins to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract, the `updateAssetsState` function invoked with the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `updateAssetsState` function enables the transfer of funds to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract. After transferring funds  to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract, the `updateAssetsState` function is invoked with the following parameters:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `updateAssetsState` function enables the transfer of funds to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract. After transferring funds to the `ProtocolShareReserve` contract, the `updateAssetsState` function invoked with the following parameters:
```

- `address comptroller`: The Comptroller where the market generated the income.
- `address asset`: The asset transferred to the `ProtocolShareReserve`.
- `IncomeOrigin origin`: The origin type, either "spread" or "liquidation."

Within the `updateAssetsState` function, the following steps are performed:

- Calculate the transferred balance, taking into account the previous balance of the asset.
- Assign the received amount to the appropriate entry (comptroller - asset - schema).
- Track the total balance of the received asset for future distribution.

### `releaseFunds` Function

The `releaseFunds` function is responsible for distributing the accumulated funds to the different destinations. This function can be invoked by anyone and follows a two-step process:

1. Transfer the tokens to the destination addresses.
2. Invoke the `updateAssetsState` function in the receiver contract.

## VBNBAdmin

> VBNBAdmin contract is the admin of the vBNB vToken. All the other vToken contracts send revenue to PSR directly whereas vBNB sends the reserves to the admin i.e., the vBNBAdmin contract. This pattern is different for vBNB because it's not a upgradable contract. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`VBNBAdmin` contract is the admin of the vBNB vToken. All the other vToken contracts send revenue to PSR directly whereas vBNB sends the reserves to the admin i.e., the vBNBAdmin contract. This pattern is different for vBNB because it's not a upgradable contract. 
```

> Whenever VBNBAdmin receives BNB from vBNB contract it converts it to WBNB and then sends it to the Protocol share reserve contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever  the `VBNBAdmin` receives BNB from the vBNB contract it converts it to WBNB and then sends it to the Protocol share reserve contract.
```

> To release the reserves of vBNB contract you need to call the `reduceReserves()` function of the VBNBAdmin contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To release the reserves of vBNB contract you need to call the `reduceReserves()` function of the `VBNBAdmin` contract.
```
